so Israeli forces are bombing areas
close to Al's Hospital in Gaza City
that's after ordering the facility's
immediate evacuation just a few hours
ago some 12,000 Palestinians are
Sheltering in the hospital the World
Health Organization and Red Cross are
expressing alarm over the evacuation
order they say it's impossible to move
hundreds of patients on intensive care
and life support with babies in
incubators inside Al's Hospital there
smoke there's debris broken windows
there's Widespread Panic as you can
imagine as a surrounding buildings are
hit by air strikes Medical Teams have
refused to leave saying they will not
abandon their
patience let's go now to T abuo and KH
Unis in Gaza and T you're in the south
of Gaza just give us an update of the
situation well the Israeli Army
continues uh to attack uh different
areas in the Palestinian inclave
territory where heavy mment where could
clearly overhead Central the Gaza Strip
in talawa neighborhood where three
residential Towers were level to the
ground uh till this current moment uh
citizens there have evacuated to
alcott's hospital where there are more
than 160 thousand Palestinians are res
are residing uh in this Hospital uh
escaping from the Israeli ongoing
Relentless bombardment in that uh in in
that area also uh it's clearly obvious
that the Israeli occupation Ground
Forces trying to have kind more for more
infiltration and more ground Invasion to
the territory which was uh confronted by
the uh Palestinian fires till now the
clashes continue in different SES and
axis in the territory also the Israeli
ongoing attacks when the Gaza Strip uh
caused catastrophic damage to different
residential buildings were complete
neighborhoods were leveled to the ground
a five story building was leveled to the
ground in a area Central the Gaza Strip
uh till this now more than 1,500 missing
reports have been uh reached to the
Palestinian Ministry of Heth which uh
faces uh such uh dram dramatic changes
on the ground where they cannot really
uh have any kind of facilitation to
reach the areas which receive different
amounts of bombardment also the Israeli
ongoing attacks claimed the lives of
more than 8,000 Palestinians and with
more than 20,000 others uh wered this
great number has uh has uh doubled uh
since yesterday due to the Israeli
ongoing rates also people who were
displaced from the houses uh really face
uh such uh dire humanitarian conditions
in the southern areas of the territories
in order to know more about that we are
hosting right now A Palestinian citizens
called Ashraf shanan he is a Palestinian
civilian who has been evacuated from his
house to the central areas of the
territory uh Mr Ashraf thank you so much
for joining us today uh could you please
tell me about why did you leave uh Gaza
store well I left Gaza after they were
there were threats by the Israeli
military uh to all Palestinians in Gaza
to to leave uh the area and head south
of the Gaza Wy of the Gaza Valley but
before before that Warning by the
Israeli Army my house was bombed and
completely destroyed and me and my
family including my wife kids
daughter-in-law and grandchild became
internally displaced persons idps this
is what Israel done to me and to
hundreds of thousands of others in the
Gaza STP so right now we're living in
kanun we lived in a house with relatives
and after five or six days the apartment
next door was bombed and the body one of
the of the victims flew into my son's
lab and uh six people died that day so
we had to move them again to another
area not far from here from khun's n
hospital for myself I I I couldn't stay
with them because of you know too too
many families living together especially
women and children so I decided to come
to uh Naser hospital and uh we're we
have a small mattress provided by
friends where sleeping on the sidewalk
well uh from your own perspective do you
clearly think that is there any safe
place in the territory nowh safe in Gaza
and honestly when I hear uh threats
against hospitals and especially like a
hospital with thousands of people there
there's nowhere for them to go the only
way for us honestly to go is just to
swim into the Mediterranean nowh else
okay thank you so much Mr ashra for
joining us today uh well this is uh the
current situation on the Gaza Strip as
civilians have been forced to leave the
houses meanwhile that are facing more
deterioration in their humanitarian
conditions even after following the
orders of the Israeli occupation forces
to leave the houses from the north and
Central areas to the in the Gaza Strip
and to move to the southern areas of the
territory specifically with the ongoing
Israeli attacks that relentlessly is
non-stopping
indeed T well done thanks very much for
that update there let's head north uh to
Gaza City near Al's Hospital yumna Al is
standing by for us there uh so yumna
over the last few hours we've been
talking to you you've been hearing uh
very close up the bombardment raining
down around Al's hospital and last time
we were speaking to there were great
flares lighting up the night sky what's
happening
now well we just got a video from one of
the people inside the hospital itself
and the video shows how the hospital
around it is being uh bombarded just 20
M away from the hospital itself they say
the uh uh Windows of the hospital the
glasses has all exploded inside the
hospital uh premises uh onto the people
there's a lot of smoke inside the
hospital itself a part of the hospital
all also uh from the bombardment have
been uh there's debris everywhere uh in
because of that uh very close
bombardment into the hospital and yet
the people there of course they're
extremely terrified now trying to get
away from the smoke a lot of children we
could see in that video and a lot of uh
people just screaming and running away
uh the uh rescue teams inside the
hospital themselves the Medics they were
trying to uh give some first aid uh
quickly to the people who were
suffocating from the spoke especially
the young children that are in the
hospital so this is how the situation is
as the bombardments still continue in
the area around the hospital uh in in
these instan y remind us of the numbers
of people that we're talking about
because it's quite staggering isn't it
Israel said that they must evacuate but
we're talking about what
14,000 people taking shelter within the
hospital there's there's what hundreds
of patients there's doctors there's
administrative staff who are all staying
and and everybody's still there
right that's true we're talking about
14,000 uh residents we're talking about
who are Sheltering in the hospital
because their homes were bombarded in t
neighborhood where the hospital Falls
we're talking about a hundred of the
Medics and volunteers according to the
director of the hospital we're talking
about patients over 400 patients in the
hospital taking uh uh medical uh care
and treatment they're kept they're being
hospitalized in Al Hospital we're
talking about premature babies in
incubators in the hospital and other
patients in the ICU unit in this
Hospital there is no means according uh
uh to the uh the uh evacuation to for
these great numbers of people the
director the hospital said it over and
over to the Israeli military as they
spoke to him that there is no means to
uh uh to evacuate that great number of
people there's no place that that they
can shelter in there is no way of
transportation to transport that great
number of people and there are no
ambulances that are uh uh prepared in
order to take these people in the ICU
unit and the baby in the incubators uh
and move them safely to another hospital
without endangering their life of course
and what about medical supplies I mean
it's running out of fuel is bad enough
especially for those those babies on
incubators and those in uh intensive
care on life support systems what about
medicines and how doctors can carry out
operations and so
forth already the Gaza Strip suffers
from a great shortage of medical
supplies and medical medications and
medical resources and also ambulances
now after almost 35 ambulances have been
targeted in the entire trip which makes
it very difficult for the uh uh medical
staff here in different hospitals to
operate they even said that the the the
human Aid or the Medical Aid that has
entered the strip Until Now does not uh
does not meet 3% of the needed Medical
Aid necessary for the uh situation of
the war they have also said that they
are getting uh uh medications that are
not needed in this time of the war while
of the medications and medical uh uh uh
uh capabilities and resources and uh uh
that are essentially needed at these
times of the war especially uh
medications dealing with Burns severe
burns in the um in the bodies of the uh
injured civilians are not even being uh
included in these humanitarian or in
these medical AIDs that are sent to the
god of CH so this is another uh crisis
that is already uh let's say compounding
the already ongoing crisis well fuel
remains to be the most important factor
here where where uh hospitals have
completely run of all the stored fuel
that they had stored for times of
emergencies they have been running some
of them oh my God on solar
panels you okay
running yes um you can hear the
bombardments are really uh loud they're
very closed
uh around me so yeah so you to just take
us through what happened there because
we heard what two blasts going off is
that that was in the street outside was
it close to you yes that's I'm I'm I'm
right here in my home and these
bombardments are very close around us uh
just earlier uh we saw a lot of light
bombs that were uh dropped in the sky
and uh we can hear a lot of War Js On
Top Of Us in the sky like they're
already preparing for the bombard of
this area just also half an hour ago two
major bombardments in the same area uh
this is I think the ansar area that is
being targeted now it's very very close
here uh this is H H one of the Civil
complexes in the Gaza in Gaza City and
it it holds a lot of civil uh
institutions it's a whole area it has
been bombarded many times before but
they continue to bombard that same area
again again this area is Ina
neighborhood the same neighborhood that
has been bombarded all through the
morning which also HS or holds the uh fo
Hospital in the same neighborhood a very
densely populated area as well indeed y
I mean it's it's impossible for us to
imagine the fear that people must have
in their hundreds of thousands at the
moment when we heard you've said it
yourself but we had a guest uh T was
talking to somebody in caruna saying
that nowhere is safe and guard so there
is literally nowhere to go and you and
your family right now are living right
now in that with that bare fact I mean
that's just just the way it is not
knowing what's going to happen
next well that's true and especially in
the dark night hours I mean if you look
outside the window in Gaza it's
extremely dark there is no light at all
the only light that we can see is SL is
from the flares and the and the fire of
the bombardments around us so it's a
very very very scary and terrifying
situation to be in such uh uh uh in such
an an an area with heavy bombardments
around you and you know that it's very
difficult even for civil defense Crews
and ambulances to get to the area where
the bombardments are because especially
at the night hours or evening hours the
bombardments usually intensify large
largely across the Gaza Strip and it
makes it very difficult for civil
defense uh Crews to get to the targeted
areas and that's why many of the people
who are being targeted or who get to be
targeted overnight uh usually uh can't
be saved in time even if civil defense
to do make it under the heavy
bombardment there is always h a problem
in getting these people out of the
rubble in saving them no enough
ambulances uh number of ambulances is
very few uh some of the ambulances that
are running or operating until now are
without Windows they just cover them
with plastic sheets because they have
been partially targeted or they were uh
close to a bombardment and they got hit
by a shrapnel of the bombardment so it's
very difficult for the ambulances and
with the huge number of zilian that and
casualties that uh fall in every Israeli
air strike as we continue hearing of
homes residential homes with people
inside them being targeted without prior
notice it makes it very difficult to be
able to save that huge number of
people one very quick question yumna
there's so many children in Gaza what as
a parent do you say to your children
about what's going on when there's blast
like those we've just heard going on so
close I can assure you that um as I'm
I'm speaking in a in a room alone and I
shut the door behind me but I know that
my kids outside they're with their
father they're with other neighbors we
all stick together in groups but what
the the the the major sense between the
children is that they're always
terrified they get more terrified when
it's at night more than the morning at
least in the morning they feel feel like
you know there's a sense of security
because they can see the daylight but
when it's at night like that and all
they can see is is is Fire in the Sky
it's very terrifying for them uh the
houses the apartments the buildings
everything shapes and it's you can't
really do anything as parent in such a
situation except tell them that it's
okay it's going to be fine it's it's far
away it's fireworks sometimes I tell my
little one it's a firework
she cries and she tells me no it's not a
firework it's a bombardment so even
these young children as young as five
years old now they know what a
bombardment is they know how a a
bombardment sounds and and they really
get terrified and it's really nothing as
parents that we can do we just feel so
helpless in such a situation you know
well of course we admire your resilience
and that of your family thank you so
much for talking to us and we'll chat
with you later